Optimal at this altitude,
I can run flat out for a half mile before my hands start shaking.
Now it does seem
like I'm a cybernetic organism,
living tissue over meadow.
This episode is brought to you by 99 designs your one stop shop for all things
graphic design related.
I've used 99 designs for everything from banner ads to book covers including
sketches and mock ups that led to the four hour body,
which later became number one New York Times Number One Wall Street Journal and
the brainstorming and a lot of it took place with designers from around the
world and here's how it works.
Whether you need a t shirt,
a business card,
a website,
an APP thumbnail,
whatever it might be,
you submit that project and designers from around the world.
We'll send you sketches and mock ups and designs.
You choose your favorite and you have an original that you love or you get your
money back.
It's that straight forward.
And many of you who are listening have already used it and created some amazing
things that I'll be sharing in the future.
But in the meantime,
if you want to see some of my competitions,
some of the book covers as well as get a free $99 upgrade,
goto 99 designs.com forward slash Tim that's 99 designs.com forward slash.
Tim
this episode is brought to you by listen headphones.
Listen,
headphones are gorgeous,
made out of real exotic reclaimed wood,
but they are also doing good in the world.
He proceeds from each purchase.
Help someone to hear for the first time through the Starkey hearing foundation.
I've been using listen headphones since they came out,
partially because the founders started the company after reading the four hour
workweek and now they're available in Nordstrom and all over the place.
They're super high quality and if you want to see the headphones that I travel
with that I love both any or an out of ear,
so it kind of big all old school headphones,
then you can go to listen to headphones.com forward slash Tim,
that's lst n,
headphones.com forward slash.
Tim,
you will also get a $50 that's right,
$50 discount.
That's a big weapon.
Five zero folks.
So go to listen to headphones.com forward slash Tim Ellis,
TN headphones.com.
Forward Slash Tim.
Hello homies in home ets.
This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show where
my job is to deconstruct world class performers to dig into the minds of people
who are the best at what they do,
to try to pull out the tactics,
the routines,
the habits,
the favorite books,
et Cetera,
coping strategies and some cases that you can implement right away.
And that ranges from hedge fund managers to chess prodigies to celebrities like
Arnold Schwarzenegger to iconic music producers like Rick Rubin.
And everything in between.
This particular episode was an experiment and I think very appropriately and
experiment because it includes two people,
a couple,
my couple on the podcast.
The first person is Dr Astro Teller.
So Astro is a computer scientist and entrepreneur who currently oversees Google
x,
which is Google's moonshot factory.
They basically tried to do anything that seems completely absurd and world
changing,
uh,
like putting up balloons to give broadband to the entire planet or who knows
teleportation,
you name it.
If it's,
if it's crazy enough and big enough,
chances are it falls under his purview.
Then you have doctor Danielle teller,
his wife who's a physician specializing in intensive care in lung medicines.
She is trained doctors and run research at Harvard University and the University
of Pittsburgh for instance.
They are both very,
very powerful minds and our conversation is about many things,
but it focuses on something I personally have not figured out,
which is relationships and both astro Daniel know from personal experience that
finding the right life partner doesn't always happen the first time around.
And through their own respective divorces they learn how widely held assumptions
and misinformation about relationships,
what they refer to as sacred cows create all sorts of unnecessary suffering.
Uh,
so the,
the preacher and the idea was to really dig in because these are two very driven
people dig into the rigor that is established,
both of them as leaders in their respective fields to have them walk me through
how they think about relationships.
How do you take to very type a personalities and have them survive and thrive in
a relationship?
That's something I have not figured out that these two really seem to have
figured out.
Uh,
many different aspects.
So we sat down to have some wine and a so thank you for putting up with all
sorts of echoes and dramatic wine pouring acoustics.
But uh,
I greatly enjoyed this conversation and I hope you do as well.
So please meet doctors astro and Daniel Taylor,
welcome to you.
Tim Ferriss,
his dining table.
This is clearly Tim Ferris and we have some incredible guests here.
We've already warmed up with a bite to eat some salmon as well as some wine.
We've had some mall Beck of course.
As you know,
one of my favorites is this true PJ terroir series 2009.
And we have a backup just in case we need that to facilitate the conversation.
So you don't hear a bunch of signing and gloves of line for an hour and a half
or two hours.
I don't think that'll be a problem.
Uh,
we have two very,
very bright folks here.
And what makes these folks so interesting is that they are a couple,
this is the first time I've interviewed a couple and a and on top of that,
people who can talk about not just being top performers in their respective
fields,
but how to harmonize a family,
how to operate with significant others,
uh,
and with children.
So I'm really looking forward to exploring this.
And,
uh,
we have Danielle and astro teller.
Welcome to the show.
Thank you.
Thanks for having us.
And,
uh,
I,
I know it's,
it's very typical to sort of ask you to do the doctor you will thing and it's an
explain,
uh,
your background.
But,
uh,
there's a lot that can be found,
I'm sure on the web when people want to,
to search and explore your respective expertise.
But I do want to dig into a little bit of what both of you are up to you to
provide some context for the conversations that we'll have in the topics we'll
dig into.
So,
uh,
maybe we could start with you,
Danielle and just chat a little bit about,
uh,
what you've been obsessed with or what has consumed you for the last year,
year and a half,
and what you,
uh,
maybe a snapshot of what you did before that.
Sure.
Um,
my current obsession is the writing.
So writing was my childhood dream.
I always wanted to write novels as typical Bookworm,
love to just immerse myself in books all day.
And then I realized that it's a really,
really hard way to make money.
Yeah.
And I got scared and decided to go to medical school instead.
But for the last year,
I have actually returned to my childhood dream and I'm writing a novel about
Cinderella's stepmother,
which is the,
a lot of fun.
Yeah.
Why Cinderella's stepmother?
I mostly honestly,
because I am the stepmother and I think a lot about being a stepmother.
And the more I think about it,
the way I think they get a really bad rap in fairy tales.
There are always the bad guy.
The mom's always dead.
And if there's a villain it's most often the stepmother.
And I just,
yeah,
I wanted to sort of correct.
So people's impression divided about stem,
others a little bit.
I feel like the stories are not being told from the stepmother's perspective.
So this one is from her perspective.
And what,
uh,
what were you doing prior to starting this?
Right?
Prior to that I was working most recently in Boston at Harvard,
uh,
as a physician and researcher.
So I did my teaching and my medical work in the intensive care unit and I did my
research in a basic science lab.
I had a small lab that I ran there and we looked into the origins of chronic
lung disease.
That's what we were excited about.
And uh,
the,
so the chronic lung disease is interesting to me.
Some people may know this already,
but so,
so I won't Belabor the point.
But I was born premature and had a lot of lung issues so that's born and my left
lung collapsed and had,
uh,
five,
full body of blood transfusion.
So I still have a lot of thermoregulation problems that,
uh,
that I think are related to my two decreased respiratory volume,
so I can't dissipate heat as well.
Hmm.
Uh,
but we can,
we can dig into that perhaps another time.
Uh,
astro,
what about yourself?
Well,
over the last year for my day job,
I've been spending time at Google x and trying to make the world a better place,
having a good time doing it.
And then Danielle and I have finished the book,
sacred cows.
I got it out there and are starting to explore what we might right next to him.
How do you choose,
how did the two of you,
and I asked her,
of course,
we've known each other for quite a few years now.
And how do you choose,
how do you decide what the next big project is or the next you mean personally
or I you mean at Google x either and,
and uh,
I mean that,
that tells me that you separate the two also.
So what,
how do you choose
either of them or both of them?
I don't think the hour that separated,
I think choosing anything to spend your time on or to have a group of people
spend their time on is a confluence of events and opportunities.
You know,
at Google x we focus more on,
you know,
is there a huge problem,
is there a radical new way to get at solving that problem?
Is there some science or technology perspective from which we really think we
could make progress in that radical solution?
That's the confluence that we tend to look for there.
But it really does mean that you can have two of those things.
And if the third one doesn't connect,
there's just nothing to be done.
But in our case,
you know,
we were both going through divorces and then ended up marrying each other.
And because we were going through our divorces at the same time,
we spend a lot of time as we were falling in love and preparing to get married,
talking about our divorces and that led to ultimately this book where we would
never have planned to write a nonself help book about,
you know,
the truth behind marriage and divorce.
If we had been happily married and just like met at a playground or on the
street and said,
hey,
you want to read a book together?
That's just not realistic and I think a lot of the opportunities that come to us
in life are these confluence of events that you can't plan on.
You can only recognize when the happen
that does that mean this is,
that's that's that is something that I often say when people ask me what my 10
year plan is,
do you have a 10 year plan?
Because I feel very conflicted about
preventing the serendipity of these confluence of factors by having a very
longterm plan that I tried to hold to.
Is that what do you,
what's your thinking on that?
My longterm plan.
I've,
I've had the same answer for that for kind of awhile.
Again,
I think this is both in my professional life and in my what's called pseudo
professional life,
like writing books.
Uh,
I want to be working on really hard things that matter with really amazing
people I can learn from.
Yeah.
And that has nothing to do with whether I'm getting paid to do it,
whether it's because my coauthor and a book is my amazing wife.
Or if it's people who I work with at Google x or at some other place in the
future,
I won't do anything that doesn't have those characteristics and I'll sign up for
almost anything that has those carrots.
Juristics
that's a good answer.
I,
how did the two of you,
uh,
they have Danieli chat talking about this.
How do you attack problems differently or,
or do you,
maybe you have complimentary skill sets?
Uh,
I'm just very curious.
When you have a challenge as a,
as a couple or if you were just in an,
in a parallel universe sort of working together and trying to solve probably the
front of you,
whatever those might be.
How do you,
how do you,
I think we're actually fairly similar in how we approach challenges in the,
how we approached the future where quite different.
Astra is a planner and I'm not,
I read a column the long time ago by David Brooks where he described,
you know,
everyone's got two kinds of people,
but he described these two kinds of people,
either the planners who have got everything worked out for the next decade or
two.
And then there are the people who wander through life looking for the next open
door.
And if it looks interesting,
they go through it and they don't really worry about whether that's part of a 10
year plan or not.
Right?
So he's the former,
I'm the ladder,
so we're very different in terms of planning about the future,
et cetera.
But I think,
I think when new challenges arise,
we both tend to be very
logical people and that it's not that we're not passionate or emotional about
things,
but we both approach problems from a pretty intellectual perspective.
And so because we've approached in the same way,
I think that helps us to talk through them and get as close as we can to a
solution.
I think it's true.
I would a color commentary on that.
We have a joke,
uh,
which is if we were a world war two era Britain,
British posters,
if she would be keep calm and carry on and you know,
the Silicon Valley version of that,
the one that's all green and has a crown at the top.
But if you look closely,
it's made out of like wrenches and screwdrivers and stuff.
Okay.
And it says get excited and make things.
Ah,
yes.
That's me.
And it's not,
I think there's actually quite a bit of truth in that.
My way of trying to get through adversity is to change things,
is to put out effort when things get really shitty.
I don't like to sit around.
I like to change something and I kind of just a churn up my gears if I can't.
And Danielle sort of the opposite,
that when things get really complicated,
she can be much zen and
patients and just get through it.
Um,
that doesn't chew up her gears.
Uh,
I've,
I've obviously,
uh,
I've listened to the Ted talk that you guys did together.
Um,
I've,
uh,
I've read through the book and even though it,
it is looking at relationships,
not exclusively certainly,
but,
uh,
through the shared experience that you have,
many shared experiences,
but one of them being divorced,
uh,
I found that a lot of the,
the thought experiments and questions in this,
we're,
we're very fascinating and,
uh,
we're going to delve into a lot of that I need and I'm sure we'll jump around,
but,
but I'd love to start with the,
the idea of a,
uh,
a soul mate and sort of the one that is,
is meant for any given person,
you know,
that there's that,
that Shining Star and uh,
yeah,
I'd love for you guys to,
to,
to talk about your position on that.
And,
uh,
maybe as part of that just elaborate.
This is something,
I'm 37,
of course I'm thinking about these as well.
Like what,
what were the non negotiables for you both that allowed you and are that are
allowing you to have a happy union.
Does that make sense?
And then you can,
you can separate those two.
But those are two totally different questions.
Yeah.
Those are two totally different questions.
Um,
that I thought I would just make one very difficult long question.
You want to answer the one true Cowan?
I'll answer the second one.
Sure.
Uh,
so the way we approach it in the book,
okay.
Is as one approach is religion,
which is to say I might be a very strong believer in my religion and field,
uh,
at an emotional level as well as an intellectual level that would,
I believe is true and recognize that other people don't have that faith,
that they can't,
they just don't believe it.
They can't bring themselves to believe it even if they wanted to believe it.
I was a,
an agnostic,
I guess about true love.
No,
I was an atheist about your love,
I guess.
I really didn't believe that there was such a thing as true love and I
approached my life through that Lens.
Basically when we fell in love,
it was as though the way I viewed it,
everything in life changed.
I just,
I saw even the literature I had read before,
poetry I'd read before,
I felt like all of a sudden I had this superior vision.
I could tell which poets were really in love and which ones weren't.
It's like having tasted something or experience something for the first time and
then you sort of see it around you and I don't know,
it's,
you see something that wasn't there.
Right.
It's like the sixth sense when that,
oh my God,
there were doing off.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So,
so I think that what we say in the book is that we're believers and yet we
recognize that not everyone is.
And I don't know,
I mean certainly we don't think that everybody's going to find their soul mate
or that there's a soul mate for everybody or that there's even just one soulmate
for,
for people.
But that there is a very important qualitative difference between different
kinds of romantic love,
that not every romantic love is the same.
And,
and,
um,
there are some types of love that just required that you be together.
And Plato described it.
Uh,
you know,
the original sort of platonic ideal of love was that humans were cut in half by
Zeus and we're forced to wander the world looking for their other half.
And then once they found their other half,
they just became bonded to that other half.
And they could just lie down and stay together for forever.
And if you ask them,
what is it that you want,
what is it that you're looking for?
They wouldn't be able to tell you what it was.
And Plato says it's not sex.
It's not,
you know,
it's,
they can't explain what it is because they have just found that,
that thing.
So,
uh,
that Danielle got,
the poetic version.
Let me give you the intellectual version.
So I personally agree with her.
So what I'm about to describe to you is what we say in the book on the same
subject.
I feel exactly the same that I was an atheist and I now religious in this sense
about true love,
but one of the boogie man in our societies,
in our society,
on the subject of marriage and divorce,
one of the unfair narratives which society keeps and uses to bludgeon people as
it chooses,
is that true love exists before marriage.
Yeah.
If you're not married yet,
then your only best,
highest purpose in life is to find true love and anything is worth it to find
that thing.
Yeah.
Including up to and including ditching somebody's moments before you say the
words I do.
Yeah.
Well that was one of the thoughts and yet moments after you say the words I do,
true love does not exist.
Because if you tell your family,
if you tell your parents,
if you tell your spouse for sure,
if you tell your children moments after you get married,
weeks,
months,
or years after you get married,
that you have now fallen in love with somebody else or that you think love is
out there,
but it's not with your current spouse.
Right?
What will everyone tell you?
They will absolutely positively tell you that what you have is as good as it's
ever going to get and that that like we want to have it one way up to marriage,
but then we all pretend that it's the opposite,
but this thing doesn't exist after marriage.
Right?
That's Bs and that's,
it's hypocritical and our society uses this to try to create fear and shame to
force people into marriage,
but then to try to keep them from leaving marriage and the weird believers in
true love.
We're not advocates for true love or against true of.
We're really advocating against hypocrisy that it can't be both.
Yeah.
Okay.
No,
that's fair.
Now I realize my question about the sort of the one true love might,
might actually not be the right question.
So before we,
that that's that sort of predicated on I think an a narrative that a lot of
people have,
which is find the one true love,
get married,
have kids.
And uh,
in my own personal life looking at a lot of my friends,
there are people who are happily married the night.
I do know some older folks,
usually men or that I'm closest with who had been happily married for a long
time and I'm sure they have the ups and downs,
but I've also seen the sort of collateral damage or the,
uh,
the explosions of marriage is all around me,
just with friends who are saying they're the mid thirties or so.
And so I'd love to ask both of you,
what is show,
what are the misconceptions when people think of the word marriage,
what should they think of?
How should they define it for themselves?
What does it represent?
And uh,
is it for everybody?
I mean is,
is there,
is,
is it a I is,
I think a lot of people feel pressured to,
to strive towards marriage,
uh,
and then the,
the downstream effects of kids and whatnot.
But when people are thinking of marriage and fueling that type of pressure as I
do sometimes,
quite frankly,
uh,
how would you,
what advice would you give them?
I don't think there is a should.
I think if we would advocate for anything,
it's just having the space to make your own decision without a lot of social
pressure.
The social pressure doesn't help and it's not right and always in the right
direction.
Yeah.
I think that there are a lot of different reasons to get married and I'm not
sure,
I mean,
you know,
we talk about to live in these highfalutin ways,
like it's this really awesome thing,
which it is,
but not everyone finds that.
And maybe if you don't believe in it and you're not going to experience it,
you know,
just like some alternative medical treatment.
If you don't believe it,
then you don't experience it.
Like maybe you need to be predisposed to it.
Some people get married because they want to have a family and they like the
person that they're with and it's not true love,
but that doesn't mean it's wrong.
I guess people just need to go into it with an open with open eyes and and
realize what their motivation is and realize that they're going to what they end
up getting out of it.
What they experience in marriage is going to have a lot to do with why.
Then you got into marriage in the first place and I think,
you know,
having both been married and divorced before,
we would wish that everyone could be happily married,
but certainly marriage isn't for everybody because being unhappily married is
not better than being single.
I mean sometimes lonely to be single.
They are there downsides to being single,
but there are a lot of downsides to being unhappily married too.
The other thing I would say is that marriage is not only something that you can
end to enter into for different reasons,
but one of the main challenges associated with marriage and divorce is that
people don't necessarily go into them with clear expectations that they share
with themselves even or let alone with their spouse.
So one of the other sacred cows that we talk about is the holy cow.
And we talk about the marriage contract as though it were almost like a business
contract.
And the concept of a contract is that you pre-negotiate friction.
That's the entire point of a contract.
Yeah.
But when you is not for the best case scenario,
that's right.
But when you look at the marriage contract,
that is the vows that people say in front of their friends and family is the
worst possible form of a contract.
It has all of the pressure and seriousness of a big contract,
but it is ultimately ambiguous because to say,
I promise to love you for the rest of my life,
since that's not something anyone can control,
how they will feel in the future is to leave completely unspoken.
What actually you're promising now.
So if you were to say,
I promise to stay with you,
no matter how miserable I am,
that's a concrete promise.
Not a very romantic one,
but it's a concrete promise.
If you were to say,
look,
I hope that I love you for the rest of my life.
If I stopped loving you,
like I'm gonna work really hard to,
you know,
work it out with you and start loving you again.
But if I can't,
I'm going to leave and you should want me to leave.
But that's also concrete.
But we don't,
as we're entering into marriage,
have a real conversation typically with our soon to be spouse about what it is
we think we're getting into what it is that they think they're getting into and
whether or not it's the same,
because a lot of the hard feelings that happen at the end are really generated
by this ambiguity that set up at the beginning.
Yeah.
I think our society makes it harder for people to really think about these
things in a really rational way because of the pressures you're talking about.
I think because society just puts a lot of pressure on people to get them to the
altar,
but also the way we've turned weddings into this very tail events,
and you get really places,
the emphasis on instead of the magic of love and love is wonderful,
but we can't let our desire to have this wonderful romantic event
make us blind to the fact that love isn't something that we control.
You know that love is actually an emotion and it's not something that you can
just,
there's no switch inside your heart that you can just turn on that will make you
love someone.
Or if that love fades away,
that can make you continue to feel the way that you used to feel.
Let me,
if they were match.com would be the most successful business in the world,
right?
You just pick someone who seemed like they fit certain criteria.
You just reach into your lips switch,
turn it on,
and you'd be like,
Oh,
I'm so in love with you.
This is great.
Right?
But it doesn't work that way.
And,
and it doesn't work that way after you're married either.
There's no magic threshold that you cross.
You're the same as the person that you dated for two years that you thought was
really great for the first eight months and then things got worse and worse and
you finally decided to go your separate ways.
It's not really any different.
If you happen to have gotten married before that eight months had elapsed,
you would be in the same position,
but society would see it very differently.
And what and which treat your feelings very differently.
So here's,
here's a question for you guys then.
If,
uh,
you,
you both experienced divorce,
uh,
why did you choose to officially get married again?
Because I mean,
of all the places that,
uh,
in granted there's still pressure of that,
of all the places that are somewhat for getting the bay area is pretty
forgiving.
I mean,
there's something for everybody here.
And uh,
maybe some other podcasts,
I'll talk about the time I accidentally wandered into a polyamorous dinner party
by myself and then they all sat down to do self introductions and I was like,
oh my God,
that was a big pocket.
I'm not sure.
Anyway.
That's a separate time.
But the point being that the bay area San Francisco is,
is pretty forgiving I think is as far as those things go in the United States.
So why didn't you guys choose to get officially married again?
It had nothing to do with what society wanted.
I wouldn't have felt whole until we'd been married.
I would have been fine not to get married for the rest of my life otherwise.
So it's not about marriage per se,
but it just would have been tragic to have found my other half and then not to
have gotten to get married to her.
That would have been
just not sort of a,
it's just realizing that devotion,
I mean,
whatever.
We didn't need the wedding to know that we have the feelings that we have.
Right.
But to not celebrate,
it just would have been a missed opportunity.
I don't know.
Just madly crazy about someone and you just want it to do everything you can to
bring yourself closer to that person.
Sure.
That if the,
it's just another level that brings you closer.
It's not that we wouldn't have been happy living together without being married,
but it's when you're,
when you're that in love,
you want to be bonded in every possible way.
And that's just another way.
Yeah,
no,
I,
I get it.
Just I had to ask,
uh,
the,
I want to come back to the,
the one true cow for a second.
Um,
I feel like there are many,
many people,
and I talked to a lot of friends for instance,
who had been with someone for a long time.
They feel like if they were putting the other report card for that person,
you know,
they're like,
they're doing really well.
Like they're there in the 90th plus percentile and they're like a 10 out of 10
and all these various important things,
but then they're very,
very low on a couple of other maybe a critical factors.
Right.
But they feel like this person is as close to the one true love that I found.
I'm the,
I'm x years of age.
Um,
let's pretend like the kids is not a factor at this point.
Uh,
if I break up with them,
I have to start from scratch.
I just feel like that type of anxiety is very pervasive.
Yeah.
Where there's a certain maybe sunk cost fallacy that just,
that that goes along with being sort of for a long time.
But if you were sort of advising a friend,
what would you say to them?
What questions would you have the mass themselves or,
or how would you help them get through that?
Because I think it's,
it's easy for people in that situation to feel like they could roll the dice and
go out and continue searching,
but it's like having a,
a revolver that they're playing Russian roulette with where there's,
you know,
a hundred chambers and 99 of them are loaded.
Um,
and there's that fear factor so that,
so they don't leave.
Right.
Yeah.
What did,
what did what you say and stuff?
Very difficult question,
but,
uh,
I mean it's not an uncommon situation.
W W what might you say to someone like that?
Yeah,
I mean it's really hard.
I don't think that we are very good at giving advice in those situations because
we know people who have chosen to get married for a number of different reasons
and there's more than one reason that works for people.
So I guess,
I guess my question to that would be what?
What is it that you want?
Yeah.
Why?
Like why would you want to get married?
And if your answer is that you want someone to grow old with that,
you want someone to have children with that you really value the familial bonds.
Yeah.
It may not be that smart to just continue to wander the world and look for your
other half because you're not guaranteed to find your other half and you might
get to a place where you feel like,
wow,
now I'm too old to kids.
Now you know,
I'm,
I'm not,
I don't have what I want.
But if,
I guess if you,
if what you want is this,
if it's more about the passion,
then I think you have to be extra careful about what you're getting into.
Yeah.
Oh.
So we run this experiment,
I'd say at least two weekends a month.
My brother is single and my brother,
uh,
meets a lot of wonderful women and uh,
he's just never found someone that he wants to marry.
And he asks essentially exactly what you just asked,
how old he is?
41 now?
Yeah.
Two years younger than me.
And um,
yeah.
So he asks us this and we say the same thing to him.
Every time there's a prism and there's a presumption is a presumption buried in
here.
He's actually incredibly,
incredibly bright.
Well,
this is stupid.
This is a hard question.
Um,
but what we tell him is,
for God's sakes,
if you don't have to be with them,
don't be with them.
Right?
Not only gonna get married,
but probably don't even date them,
like move on.
But hidden in that statement is an understanding that we have about him in
particular,
that we believe that he's wired the way we happen to be wired.
That is that he has it in him to feel the thing that we feel.
We,
I think,
I believe he does and that he will be unhappy.
I believe he will be unhappy if he settles,
which as Daniel pointed out,
that is not true for everybody.
That's not necessarily the top of everybody's list,
but because we believe it's at the top of his list having something that is
qualitatively better than anything he's experienced before,
what we tell him is if you don't have to be with them,
you probably have to not be with them.
Right.
And that's not a checklist when you get to the place where you have to be with
someone.
There's no like there are nine out of 10 are there.
It's just,
it's different.
Yeah.
What,
no,
of the marriages that,
uh,
you both have observed where
the couples would,
uh,
yeah,
honestly say they are happy,
right?
They're not,
they're not putting on a show.
They're not acting.
Okay.
What were the reasons they decided to get married?
Right.
So if the outcomes are highly dependent on sort of the reasons for getting
married in the first place,
what are the reasons that tend to have better outcomes than others?
Okay.
I think it's when the couple of the lines in their reasons.
So I do know couples who have gotten married really to have children.
I mean it's not that they didn't love each other,
but it,
yeah,
a lot of people it's,
it's,
it's accelerated or the decision is made for that,
right?
So they might not have ended up together except that having children was what
they wanted and they love being parents and they love their families.
They just love being part of the family.
It's like,
I think that that can work.
But you know,
the one thing I,
I feel,
this is just my opinion,
when I see people who are happily married,
I remember one time sitting around the Thanksgiving table and my brother and his
wife were there and he described looking at his life.
He'd been with her for 10 years,
married for five years or something like that.
And,
and he described looking her and thinking,
that's my girl.
And I just said like that feeling that you have of like and just I'm so happy
that I'm with that person and just I admire that person and I'm proud of this
person's my spouse.
I just love being with that person.
That is one of the qualities I think that I see in the happiest marriages.
What asked her,
what are the,
I think you and I have some similar DNA.
I mean beyond,
beyond the fact that a lot of humans it will have that similar DNA,
but the 90 like 90% is the same direction.
That's pretty close.
I'm feeling really close to the right now.
What are the,
what are the most common mistakes that you've observed that sort of type a
personality driven guys make when it comes to these big relationship decisions?
I don't know if this is going to be a list of the things you know in proper
order that are a problem,
but I'll tell you a story.
I like stories,
right?
I have a friend who had become single and had moved to a new city and it was
just he,
he's a good looking guy.
He's in his late thirties and he was just having a hard time kind of getting
back into the swing of being single.
And he went from that to discovering Tinder in this case.
And once he got on Tinder,
he went from almost not seeing anybody too exhausting himself and with how many
people that he was seeing,
he described it almost like being able to just select the attributes that you
wanted,
like ordering a pizza and then the girl would appear almost literally at his
doorstep.
And the thing that I thought was interesting about this was that he said after
he had ordered a good 30 of women who happen to fall into a particular category,
they were blonde.
There were six years younger than him,
they'd all gone to Stanford,
you know,
technical that he had the set of things that he was positive where his type.
And he said,
now that I've been with like 30 of those women I've discovered,
that's not my type.
And I think that that's probably more typical than not.
And he just discovered it a lot faster than many people do.
But the types that we think we have come from the movies come from,
who knows what our parents said to us we were supposed to be with from our own
insecurities and hangups.
And those things aren't going to make us happy.
So those can't actually be the checklist.
But if you don't use,
I don't,
I'm not picking on Tinder,
but if you don't use Tinder,
it could take you decades to find that out instead of months.
Right,
right.
Because it could take you several hundred experiences to really verify that it's
not just her or her or her or him or him or him.
It's actually that you were misguided,
that you had the wrong sense of where people would resonate with you.
So a lot of type a people think that a type a person is who they have to be
with.
Danielle is a introvert.
I'm an extrovert and I dunno,
I've never had a checklist,
but I wouldn't have probably written introvert on some checklist of mine.
But really loving somebody is about throwing the checklist out the window.
And so thank goodness I wasn't like trying to satisfy some checklist because I
don't,
I'm not sure introvert would have like made the list for me,
but that doesn't make us incompatible.
It's,
I had a,
I would have had a bad list if I had been making a list.
How did you,
how did you first meet?
Uh,
we met in 2001 in Pittsburgh.
I had just moved there and I had just gotten home putting it together.
All right.
The Carnegie Mellon and connection,
right.
Yeah.
So,
so I had just gotten married and my husband was still in Boston and I needed to
find a place to live and I was uncertain as to whether I'd be able to stay.
My mentor had just moved from Yale where I had started my training.
I still wasn't quite finished and I mentored,
moved to University of Pittsburgh.
And so I either had to find myself a new science,
science mentor and start all over with a different project or move to
Pittsburgh.
But as a Canadian,
I didn't have a visa that was going to allow me to remain in the u s
necessarily.
Yeah.
And so I needed to find,
I need to get a waiver,
so I need to find a way to be able to stay.
So I was looking for a rental.
I couldn't buy it.
And in Pittsburgh,
the housing costs are so low that nobody ran success students.
And so every place I looked at,
it's just the smell,
the fear,
SARS are all crooked.
And it was just,
it was sort of,
it was ridiculously hard to find a rental.
And then I found on the web a rental,
this cute little house,
this guy who was going to Stanford for a sabbatical,
a professor at Carnegie Mellon.
And so I went to look at the house and it turned out it belonged to Sebastian
Thrun,
who is a good friend of Astros.
And so I walked in the house,
I was like,
I'll take the house.
And he said,
don't you want to know anything about it?
You want to know like what the heating bill is or anything.
I was like,
no,
I'll take the house because I just,
I was so desperate for a place and it was really nice place because anyway,
we hit it off.
We had a fun conversation and he said,
well,
you know what,
we're leaving to move to California,
but why don't you guys come over for dinner the weekend before it really leaves.
So my husband was back in town,
we went to Sebastian's for dinner and the only other guests were astro and his
then wife,
Zoe.
And we just,
we hit it off and our families became friends.
So we were friends for a long time.
So this is,
um,
so many questions I want to ask you guys and it's been very sort of fascinating
and,
and a comically tragic to watch my own monkey mind at work in the last say five
years,
just as like more and more friends are getting married,
more and more friends who are having kids,
uh,
you know,
that you're like,
well,
maybe someday I'll have grandkids kind of comments or maybe it's more frequent
than they used to be.
And,
uh,
the anxiety that's produced.
And what I've realized is one of my big fears is,
uh,
and,
and this is probably right.
I mean,
I think a lot of what's addressed in sick cows,
but is I don't want to lose,
I don't want to do a bad job.
And so I don't,
if I think I'm going to do a bad job,
I don't sign up for the job.
Does that make sense of what counts as losing for you?
Is it a bad marriage or not?
Or failing to get married?
I'm not telling you.
So here's,
here's a very granular concern.
So when I was thinking,
when I was listening to your story about your,
your friend and Tinder and how he had the one on 30 days,
you know,
whatever,
but like,
you know,
28 year old Stanford Grad technical women,
and he's like,
ah,
I don't think they're my type part of me and call me cynical.
But you could read,
you know,
sex at dawn or just look at monkeys if you want.
And I'm just like,
maybe he just got bored.
Maybe he had exhausted,
maybe he's looking for novelty after that point.
And that's a fear that I have in so much as I've been very good at,
uh,
monogamy.
I've never cheated on a girlfriend.
And,
um,
but I find after a certain period of time,
I kind of have to,
I have to put a part of my,
uh,
a lot part of my psyche and be like a straight jacket to make it work.
And,
um,
it affects my mood and behavior and everything else.
And so I've never had an issue up to say several years of dating someone,
but I,
I fear my fear is that I marry someone and then x number of years into it,
who knows?
Five,
six,
seven,
eight,
nine,
10,
whatever it might be.
I cheat or that need,
I could call it,
call it a want,
but I feel like it's very much hard wiring,
uh,
screws everything up.
And it's like we have kids and then the whole thing explodes.
Um,
how do you encourage someone to think about that?
Because I honestly,
this is something I really struggle with because I don't want to be a bastard.
I don't want to lie.
I don't want to sign up for something that is a doomed mission from the start.
How do you think about this stuff?
I,
I'm so
boo Trump like troubled by this.
I don't even know where to start.
It's a big question.
Well,
I think if you will
to get married to me.
I would hope that you would bring this up with me before we got married.
Right,
right.
And Are you proposing
mission accomplished
wife number two?
Oh yeah,
no,
no.
This is a very like kind of situation ever to know.
Where are your lady friend and we were considering getting married.
I would at the very least want you to talk to me about this.
Yeah,
no,
that might be a deal killer for me.
But if this is something you're really worried about and you talk to me about it
and then I say,
look,
deal killer,
you know,
that's probably not the right person for you to marry.
So there's some good self selection going on there.
Yeah,
I can't promise,
but I don't think we're the only ones who feel like this.
Yeah.
If you're worried about that,
wait until you don't feel like that anymore.
Because I think we both feel that that's not an issue for us.
Not because we are sexual beings and have desires and you know,
it's not like we don't crave novelty generally,
but I don't think either of us has like a pressure to leave our marriage to seek
out more novelty and,
yeah.
Yeah.
I think it's possible for many people.
I bet possible for you to feel like that and maybe that's just part of your body
telling you and you were not ready to get married or you haven't found the right
person to get married too.
Yeah.
Entirely possible.
It's,
it's,
um,
uh,
it seems to be a very,
a perennial challenge for a lot of people,
not just men.
I think just men just coming back to the sort of societal framework within this
operating.
It's just more accepted,
I think for men to talk about it or to lament it.
But,
um,
let's shift gears just a little bit.
So when,
when you guys have a conflict,
I'm very curious,
is there,
what have you guys found to be the most effective way of resolving conflict?
Because I think a lot of the relationship problems that end relationships
ultimately could probably not probably,
but a lot of them could be a virgin if people just managed conflict better or
set expectations in the way that you were talking about since you know,
meeting with number two and everything.
Uh,
so how do you,
how,
how do you guys think of conflict resolution with a significant other?
I want her to talk first because I don't want to get yelled at
because I'm the boss.
There's no conflict
or else,
yeah,
it's an iron fist.
As soon as you see any of match it with an iron fist,
I think that
there's,
uh,
there are a lot of books written about this,
so I don't think anything that I could say would,
um,
wouldn't be novel.
I think if you have basic respect and love for the other person,
then you're not going to allow your conflict to escalate to the point where
you're hurting the other person's feelings.
So you're not going to be,
I mean,
if you read a book about how to keep your marriage together or how to not have
such bad conflict,
they'll tell you things like,
be respectful,
don't call each other names.
You know,
that's sort of the basis and visited things we learned in kindergarten.
Um,
and,
and when you're in a relationship that's a loving relationship,
I think that you often don't do those things because causing pain to the other
person causes you pain yourself.
Um,
I think that we try to be as rational as we can.
I think that helps both of us,
but that's just a style thing.
But there are people for him that doesn't work,
you know,
just like everyone has different coping mechanisms.
Like Freud had all these different mechanisms for how people cope with various
psychological disturbances.
We have our,
like our waste intellectualize everything,
but that just,
that works for us.
That's not for every couple,
but,
but I,
I think that's good.
And then I think the other thing is we agree to disagree about some stuff.
We don't always come to a place where we were both like,
Yep,
I totally get your perspective.
I totally agree with you,
but we can respect the fact that we don't always completely share the other
person's opinion and that's okay.
I would say I agree.
I know how ridiculous this sounds,
but I think that the conflict resolution in a way that works the best for us,
it was going to sleep
just,
it's so frustrating.
But whenever we have conflict,
if we allow ourselves to sit up and talk about it for four hours,
typically the conflict really doesn't go away.
But it doesn't matter if we talk about it for four minutes or four hours.
The conflict,
if anything will get worse.
Typically.
Yeah,
that's right.
Experience.
If we go to sleep the next morning,
we're like lovebirds again and we like can't even reconstruct.
Why were we were linking.
See this is really,
and so,
but we've gotten good at it,
so now we will just say it's sometimes it's hard,
but we,
we are much better than we used to be.
It just saying,
why don't we go to sleep?
We'll talk about it tomorrow and we both understand that that means like we're
being ridiculous.
It's in fuel,
ridiculous.
But we also understand intellectually that we're going to feel different the
next morning and then we run the experiment and sure enough the next morning we
don't want to fight it better than anymore.
No,
I like this advice because it's simple,
but it's also a runs counter to what you are told a lot in relationship advice
books,
which is never go to bed angry.
Like you have to resolve it for you to sleep.
In my experiences,
you were just like,
all right,
the only thing that was just accomplish this,
we took something that was like nonsense and to humans being stupid from four
minutes to four hours and now we're just not going to get any sleep and we're
going to be bitchy and,
but I'll be tomorrow.
How much point to that?
Okay.
Um,
what other,
what?
Uh,
okay,
so rituals or routines or habits that you guys have that you think help the
relationship?
We're help the family.
We have a lot of rituals in our relationship.
And so those have just brown and multiply.
We joke that eventually our whole day is just going to be a 24 hour Mitchell.
We built all these rituals,
entire lesson,
but the rituals are really wonderful and they help to preserve our sanity when
things are crazy.
I mean we have four kids,
we've each got two.
So it's a,
it's,
there's a lot of chaos in times,
but having our rituals where,
you know,
after work,
as long as the sun is still up,
we have,
we carve out a period of time,
even when the kids are there to go and sit in the pap sign in our backyard and
we have our special drink.
Usually the pumper some,
yeah,
I'm putting a hyphen in there.
Like what's a fuck?
It's a chair at bamboo frame with a big cushion in it.
Oh,
sounds great.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's comfy.
So we will do that.
And then we have,
we have a morning routine where we have our monogamy.
This is where you have your monogamy,
which is a nickname for explaining the drink.
I love this.
Okay.
It is a Rosemary Martini.
How does one make a rosemary murky?
So it's not a secret.
We're,
uh,
we only drink it when we're together,
but we're very happy to push it on other people though typically other people
don't enjoy it.
Yeah.
But one of the jokes about
it seems like we're the only two people that actually like it,
but the,
the recipe,
the recipe is three parts.
Rosemary infused vodka,
two parts vanilla infused cognac and one part lemon juice.
And there's some sweetness from the vanilla.
And then there's the tartness from the lemon juice and the,
uh,
a,
sort of pungent newness of the Rosemary and the,
the vodka.
And it's,
it's really wonderful to try that.
And so by infusing relay meters,
taking like a sprig of Rosemary and dropping it in the bottle,
uh,
well we take about 20 sprigs in the bottle and leave it there for 24 hours till
it's really rose married.
Okay.
So I like this.
I like this.
This is,
so that's one ritual.
And then we have a morning ritual where astro always wakes up earlier than I do.
And he goes and makes coffee and then he waits till evening.
Same Waking up and he brings the coffee to bed.
That's it.
That's us sitting in the Papasan and waking dream and not right.
Oh Man.
That's a great ritual in the morning.
So he wakes up earlier and when he thinks that you're not going to throw a book
at right.
I would.
I'm pro boxing course of books.
Ninjastars bottling or more about the Baltimore.
Right.
So he'll come and he'll wake you home.
Yeah.
And then we have our time in bed where we just snuggled in Jakarta,
coffee and that's also sort of sacrosanct time and the kids are,
and they're doing their thing,
but we just,
we carve out that time so that we're in our little bubble and we start our day
out just by being just the two of us and having this calm moment.
And this is the,
now this is before the kids get up?
No,
they're,
they're up in,
through getting themselves ready.
I mean they're older now.
They were 13 1211 and 10 okay.
They're old enough to,
yeah.
Then advantage she is necessarily now and they don't need us to do everything
for them.
For self organizing bench.
I let know when,
when the kids were younger in both cases.
I'd be interested to hear,
uh,
so we were chatting before we started recording about,
this,
this article that was written sometime ago by,
I'm blanking on the author's name.
Uh,
what was that?
I wallet.
I think so,
yeah.
About how she loved her.
She was mad.
She,
and I'm paraphrasing here,
but prioritized her husband over it gets or loved her husband more than her kids
or something like that.
Um,
what I'm curious to know is,
okay,
what,
what have you found the balance to be in terms of,
uh,
when handling conflict resolution or anything else?
Uh,
siding with the spouse or the kids or the kids over the spouse.
I think that,
like you said,
ask her earlier about the expectations being clear.
I was very fascinated when I was in college.
Took a year off of college for a whole lot of reasons we can talk about another
time.
Uh,
I was on the extended plan and I lived with this fascinating Mormon guy who is
very high up at Unilever.
And he said that part of the reason he felt his family had a very low degree of
conflict is that he,
his wife was always prioritized over his kids.
Hmm.
So they couldn't be divided.
And so it made conflict resolution much easier.
And I'm not saying that's the answer,
but it was,
it was thought provoking enough to a college kid.
It really wasn't thinking about marriage and all to stick with me.
So I'm curious sort of how you think about managing the spouse or significant
other relationship with the kid relationship.
I don't think it has to be about love.
I mean,
I don't think there's anything wrong with loving your husband more than your
kids are loving your kids more than your husband.
I mean,
I,
I wouldn't cast judgment on anyone for how they love.
I think love is just what it is that it happens.
It's not something we control.
But I think that being a team is absolutely necessary.
And I think this is the message that we always try to give to the kids,
which is that where we're on the same team and they're on the same team and that
may seem like we're sending things out to be a little more at home,
but,
but I think it works because they band together more and they don't try to
divide and conquer the US because they know that we will refuse to allow them to
demand us.
Yeah,
yeah.
Oh,
totally.
Yeah.
We're playing two men down as it is.
If we allowed any opportunity,
you know,
it's,
we're like,
you know,
fighting back to back like Batman and Robin,
if they could separate us and like take one of us down and then come get the
other one we do,
we'd never survive.
Came over.
Uh,
what is,
what is some of the worst advice do you,
that you think people are routinely given about it?
Relationships.
And that could be marriage,
but just,
I'll keep it broad.
Just about really significant other type relationships.
Well,
here's one of the ones that bothers me a lot.
Um,
we refer to it as the defective cow.
And in the book,
which is there's a strong social narrative,
it's one of these other boogie men in our society that if you are married and
you are in an unhappy marriage and you're getting anywhere close to thinking of
leaving,
you are not just a bad person.
Like,
oh,
I'll get back to how bad a person you are in a minute.
But you're also a broken person.
You are a defective person because you got married to them.
So obviously,
cause I mean it's,
it would be even worse if you were a liar.
You at some point loved them.
So you've lost your way.
So you were hole.
Now you're broken and it is your job to mend yourself and we'll know that you're
mended.
We'll know that you're no longer a broken human being when you love your spouse
again.
And this narrative is incredibly strong in our society and confuses people very
badly because not for all of them,
but for some of them the answer might be,
actually,
I'm not broken.
I'm just not love in love with my spouse anymore.
Yeah.
But if you don't allow that to be one of the possible explanations for why
you're having a hard time in your marriage,
if the only possible explanation is that you're a broken human being,
people spend a lot of time being very unhappy at themselves and trying
completely few to fix themselves when the problem is in fact,
not that they're a bad person,
that they're not trying hard enough,
all the things that they go to their therapist and say.
So
I mean love,
I mean love is that it encompasses desire as well because this is probably even
more common with sexual desire than it does with love because I think a lot of
people still really do love their spouses but are not sexually attracted to
them.
Right.
And this idea of focusing on like what is wrong with you that you lack any sort
of libido is,
I mean some people do have medical reasons or psychological reasons for why they
may have enough normal desire for sex.
Yeah.
But we don't as a society,
spend enough time talking about the fact that sometimes it's about the
relationship,
you know,
it might be that if you were with a different person,
and maybe it's a novelty thing is you were talking about before.
I mean there are other issues,
but we're so afraid as a society of coming close to that because that is
threatened because that might mean that,
well,
we can't be married if,
you know,
if the problem is not you,
if it's not your libido that's gotta be fixed.
It must be that our relationship has isn't working and maybe one of the
solutions is you need to be with someone else then that,
and that's not something we want to talk about.
But I think it does cause a lot of pain and confusion for people that were at,
we're not willing to at least bring that up.
Like if that may not be the cause,
but the fact that we never bring that up as a potential cause,
and I think it's a lot more common in the cause then we let on is,
I think it's hurting people.
Yeah.
Uh,
do you,
do either of,
you know,
any,
uh,
long term single people,
older than 40,
you would consider to be genuinely happy?
Yeah.
Okay.
Tell me about them.
Um,
because here's,
I'll give you,
I'll give you the time now,
so you can,
I can think of is like,
because part of me is like,
you know,
yes,
he just got married,
but like George Clooney had a pretty good run of things.
And it's like,
I wonder if there is,
especially as a male,
I just,
I,
I've,
I felt so much pressure from different corners,
uh,
in the last few years related to marriage.
And I'm like,
is it really so bad?
But like,
I'm pretty happy guy.
Uh,
I would love to be with the,
the,
you know,
the true love of my life,
of course.
Uh,
but if there's any degree of doubt,
it doesn't see,
it's,
I don't want to rule that out as a completely non-viable path,
at least for a period of time.
Uh,
and,
uh,
so I'm,
I'm just very curious to know because now the,
the feedback that I would get,
which is very much kind of this conversation in the book and elsewhere about
Seidel pressure will be like,
well,
like,
that's great.
You can focus on yourself and do this,
this and this.
But like,
that's not true happiness.
And this is like,
well maybe,
maybe,
uh,
but you know,
maybe you're taking a bunch of baggage and like anger and stuff that you haven't
been throwing it on me.
Uh,
so,
sure.
Yeah.
So I'd be curious to hear of sort of any single people,
male or female who you think are genuinely happy and why you think that's the
case and it doesn't have to necessarily do it there.
Singlehood um,
but right.
You mean specifically single people?
Yeah.
Well,
I mean,
I think that we've lived long enough now to have seen a lot of our friends go
through various states of singleness,
married,
divorced,
remarried,
this,
well,
you know,
the,
we've seen people cycle through these things and I think people are in a way
their own best control because you,
people probably have different happiness set points,
you know,
some people that are probably just more predisposed to being happy than other
people are.
And I think what I've gathered just anecdotally from watching friends go through
various types of relationships and,
and singlehood is that they're,
they're kind of,
there are times when they're very happy as married people or as a couple and
times where they're very happy as single people and Times where they're very
unhappy in both situations.
And I don't think that their overall happiness correlates very well with their
marital status.
I didn't give,
you sort of grasped it.
They wouldn't be like a super good correlation to how happy they were.
You know,
when they first got married they were,
there was a lot of happiness.
And then there were some very dark moments.
And then,
you know,
after they split up,
they were happy again.
They're just,
they go through happiness and sadness,
kind of the same,
right.
As happy as a single or as married people.
And the people I know who have remained single their whole lives who are now in
their forties and fifties I think that they,
the reason that they're,
so the people that who seem unhappy are the people who are obsessed with,
why aren't I married?
You know,
I should be married.
Society was telling me I should be married.
Should I have had children,
you know,
can I still have children?
What's wrong with me?
But the people I know who adjust have a very strong inner sense of this is how
I'm meant to be,
you know,
I tried being part of a couple,
it really isn't my thing.
I just like I,
it just doesn't really work for me.
They seem as happy to me mean.
You never know how happy any other person really is.
Sure.
But they certainly seem as happy to me as any married people I know.
Yeah.
I would also say that I think one of the things that does correlate with
happiness,
this is well known to be part of what tends to cause happiness and people is a
sense of uh,
gratitude,
a sense of connection to other people.
And a sense of caring for spending time on thinking about people other than
yourself.
Now having a family happens to drive all of those things.
And so there can be sort of happiness benefits of a kind.
There's lots of stressors also,
but happiness benefits to being part of a family.
But that doesn't mean that you can't get all of those same benefits as a single
person.
Right.
And I know for example,
entrepreneurs who,
who treat their companies like their families,
and they really care a lot about their companies in it,
but the people in the company,
they care about it more than they care about themselves.
And not just because they're trying to win or make a lot of money,
but because they're are very purpose driven and they're very community oriented.
And this is the community that they've created and they they care for.
And so I've seen people who are single have all of the same benefits that you
get from having the benefits of having a family.
So I think it's a sort of false sense that you have to be selfish or an
egomaniac if you stay single,
that I don't think that's a necessary outcome.
Hmm.
So much perfect.
That is a big,
big subjects.
I mean there are very few things that really,
really,
really stressed
me out these days and it's like this relationship stuff is one of them because I
think there's,
there's so much subjectivity involved and uh,
I like to be able to kind of like slice it and dice it and put it on a plate of
glass and be like,
okay,
here's what we have.
Great.
Okay.
All right.
Fantastic.
One of our assumptions.
Okay.
And here are like three or four things we can test and great.
Which is where like Tinder,
is this potentially valuable where you can spend like three weeks figuring out
like,
oh,
maybe this isn't my type as opposed to three years,
three decades,
uh,
what,
what are the,
uh,
are the little things that both of you do independently too,
help
happiness or wellbeing?
So not,
not a routine with the other person,
but things that you guys do separately or individually that help you maintain an
even keeled sense of wellbeing?
Well,
exercise think that's a pretty interesting answer,
but no,
I like the real answers.
Not that
exercise is the answer,
but we do a lot of exercise together.
So it happens to be that if you separated us for a year,
we would both keep exercising.
It is also the case that whenever we can,
we exercise together and it's one of our favorite things to do.
It's one of our rituals.
And that's
uh,
running or what other types of running,
running primary,
yeah.
Do you talk or do you just run it?
We usually talk.
Sometimes we just run,
but I've always felt like exercises that the cure for everything.
Like,
yeah,
no,
I agree.
My lawyer,
my favorite form of our talking when we run is she listens to more podcasts than
I have time to listen to.
And she'll do,
she'll narrate podcasts like this one.
She'll hear something that she really loves and then in an hour long jog,
she will narrate,
I think often better than the podcast itself,
which sometimes you later plays for me.
Almost like a thought for thought everything in the podcast.
It's a particularly fun way for us to spend our time listen to the radio.
No.
What are your go to podcasts you mentioned cereal.
I,
okay.
If you tried to attribute,
have you,
have you sort of wandered out into the,
uh,
the,
the otter neighborhoods outside of a public radio or not yet?
Not much.
I probably should do more of that,
but there's just so many,
there's so many podcasts and I listen to as many players,
so I've recommended it before,
but I'll recommend it again.
Shake out hardcore
history.
Okay.
It's so amazing.
Maybe one episode every two to three months and it's phenomenal.
Check out wrath of the cons.
It's a multipart series on,
uh,
Genghis Khan as he says,
getting guess.
Uh,
so,
uh,
the,
let me,
let me ask you a couple of,
uh,
very different questions than not necessarily relationship related,
but they're,
they're questions that I know and what listeners enjoy hearing answers to.
And I enjoy hearing answers too.
So,
uh,
the first one might sound odd,
but it's,
it's related to a
purchasing behavior.
So,
uh,
what is the most impactful hundred dollars or less that you've spent recently?
And it could be on anything but a curious and it can be something free for that
manner.
What I or what have you spent $100 or less on in the last six months,
year that is disproportionately positively impacted your life.
Okay.
We can plant that seed and come back to them.
I mean,
I'm going to tell you the first thing I thought of,
it's not something we spent money on,
but as many people do,
we pile up stuff that we don't need anymore.
And we took a big pile of it to goodwill today and we were saying how wonderful
the goodwill sort of Jujitsu is that many people don't understand that it's not
just that they happen to sell the stuff that they sell cheaply,
but they have this balanced just right where they take the stuff that they get
for free and they mark it up a nontrivial amount,
but still a lot less than the people who go to goodwill would otherwise pay for
that stuff.
It has no value to us.
We would otherwise have thrown it away.
So it's sort of something for nothing.
But then they take the profit they make from that and they have other
philanthropic enterprises.
They use up all of that profit doing other things.
And I don't know,
it was the first thing I thought it was,
um,
I know
we give away something that has no value anymore for us and they derive so much
value from it.
I know it was just the first thing I thought of was,
oh,
that's dropping.
It's not just that it feels good to like donate something.
It's that I particularly love the idea of a well crafted business model and
there are many Ngo's that are just highly non efficient with the money that they
get to put it diplomatically and the goodwill is not one of them.
Goodwill has actually got the sort of fly wheel going in a really positive way
where everybody goes home happier.
Yeah.
It's just,
oh they're like the world should be more like that.
So what has made a big difference?
Actually Google.
Okay.
Really has really
changed everything because we used to have to listen to the radio in the car
because the kids don't want to listen to pop music and they had switched from
one station to another and we'd have to listen to this horrible advertising on
the radio.
And then at home they would play it on youtube.
So then they'd all be hunched around the computer and then they'd end up
watching videos and it would just be all sort of choppy watching what they
wanted.
And so we finally got them.
They're all,
you can eat buffet of Google play and now they can for a flat fee every month,
get as much music as they want and it has made our car rides much nicer.
Right.
And then because of,
for whatever it is,
like seven 99 a month,
they can make their playlist as long as they want.
Instead of listening to the 10 popular songs,
they've made playlists that are several hundred songs long.
They left today and we kept their pleading and we kept their playlist on because
at least it's not repeated 20 minute time slot we are 20 minutes ago and nothing
has to buy music for them.
That's right.
And that was given some money.
Very cool.
I like that.
Uh Oh yeah.
So side note,
very closely related.
It's taken me years to upgrade to Pandora approach is like $3 a month or
whatever to get rid of the
ads and now you wonder why,
why
did it take me so long to do this?
And what's really funny is I set up my Pandora account initially when I was on
long island.
So all of the ads are targeted locally to long islanders.
Like,
Hey,
come on down the comic form,
you know,
minivans and we'll show it.
Yeah,
that'd be great.
And like all of these ads and there's,
they're so bad,
while I was like,
all right,
I'm going to sit down for five minutes and like fix this problem once for,
it's like $3 a month or whatever the hell it was.
$3.
Right.
So well spent.
Oh my God.
Uh,
so it'd be like,
you know,
pretending to dance tango with my girlfriend or something.
We'd be like,
oh,
it's like romantic moment and then it be,
yeah,
oh,
it's Jesus relying and like Saturday night there it goes to the magic.
Uh,
so a book,
so I'm just like my books for a second and documentaries.
Uh,
and there,
there,
there are two options.
The first is favorite book.
If there's one that immediately comes to mind that you usually,
people don't know and they kinda just pick one randomly had a memory or most
gifted book,
the book you've gifted to the most people,
uh,
start with books,
astro or Danielle.
I'm not even going to try to go for favorite book,
too many books,
but I will tell you the sort of recent books.
Okay.
Most recent gifted book from our family is what if this is the XKCD amazing
book.
The kids are obsessed with this.
They can quote it from memory.
They've learned probably more science from the what if book than they have from
their science class in the last two years.
And we've given out quite a few copies and we just finished reading.
We read in bed together.
Um,
a nontrivial percentage of the evenings.
Like that's just read silently.
It's,
no,
no way.
We read to each other.
I mean,
at least lately I've been the one who was reading,
so I just finished reading her ready player one,
which was,
you know,
I just bought that audio book.
I have it.
It's so much fun.
And now we're in the doldrums because it was so fun that we're like pouting
because nothing's going to be as good.
You know,
that feeling.
I have to agree.
I have a suggestion.
Yeah.
Uh,
do you have any interest in fantasy?
No,
no.
Yes,
yes.
The name of the wind by Patrick Rothfuss.
Alright,
well I have yet to suggest it to anyone who hasn't enjoyed it.
All right.
Yeah.
The other option that also has a really good track record so far as far as
people I've recommended to is the graveyard book by Neil Gaiman.
It's about a young boy who was raised in a graveyard.
A really,
really stellar,
I think,
uh,
the,
the audio book is partially what drew me in just because Neil Gaiman is such an
incredible narrator.
Okay.
So what if
right?
Isn't the graveyard book a recreation of a,
of another famous?
Yes.
Ooh,
that's a good question.
I just thought I would have bet you my life.
Uh,
well I would say the,
the one book that I had probably tried to push on the most people and it really
didn't take it cause I stopped pushing it on people was Oscar and Lucinda by
Peter Carey.
Okay.
Just fell in love with that novel Oscar and loosened up.
Yeah.
When I was,
uh,
this was a long time ago.
I just really,
really love that book.
What did you like about it?
It was just so lyrical.
Every single chapter is like a little jewel.
He has the most amazing way of bringing to life a scene with not just beautiful
language,
but incredible imagery like,
uh,
a coat rack with cats and coats on it,
looking like it's covered with crows.
Like you had this image of these birds who were going to take flayed and um,
this one of a birds diving into the water,
piercing the membrane between dreams and reality.
And he just has this wonderful turns of phrases.
Or there's women who,
there were parts that are really funny too.
It's,
it's,
it's not just all lyrical,
but this a w the listened to character in the book gets really angry and yells
at someone and then the,
she realizes that she's created a scandal and this is gonna create a problem.
And there's this great image of her saying that as her anger cooled,
it was like an athlete who had torn a muscle in the middle of a race or a game.
And then as the anger went away and then she could feel the pain,
the pain set in.
It's such a common feeling,
right?
Or you do something in a moment of anger,
but this,
comparing it to this is the,
this athlete who's just feeling this pain and the first time Amy,
I love that.
And the other one I love is the hours first.
A very similar reason by Michael Cunningham.
Yeah,
no.
Why isn't it the first one not take?
So you're trying to push it,
but he didn't take it because it doesn't have,
it's not very plot driven.
It's kind of long and it's really about the moments and about their writing and
the plot is very slow to get going until you get halfway through the book.
You're really not sure where the book is going and then it's a romance,
but it's not a very uplifting,
right.
This is why we're each other's other half my favorite books.
I have the exact same problem and I pushed them on people and nobody likes him
either.
Yeah.
It's the Garmin gas trilogy by Mervyn Peake.
What was the name of the field?
Warming guest.
Gorman.
Gorman gassed.
It's you spell that.
And G,
O r g e n g.
H.
A.
S.
T.
O forming gassed.
It's the name of a castle.
It's a,
it's this castle.
It's like a fantasy story,
but there's no magic or which is are elves or anything.
It's just this castle that set in this very abstract place.
And it's just the political life in the caseloads,
like downtown Abbey in a castle.
Uh,
it's more abstract than that.
It's a cartoon version of that.
A very gorgeous Tartine,
but it was,
it's written by an artist and a poet who had until he wrote the first book,
never written a novel and it reads like that.
They are word paintings.
Right.
Um,
and so many people read them and just are like,
uh,
I just,
I can't keep going.
Uh,
and,
but I just,
I've lived the book recommendation for you.
Yeah.
Uh,
it's called motherless Brooklyn.
It's about a spent Jonathan them,
it's fantastic,
hilarious novel about a detective with Tourette's syndrome
and it's
based in Brooklyn.
And,
uh,
it,
it fully embraces all of the cliches of the detective genre.
It's,
I love it.
It was recommended to me by two staunch critics who seldom recommend books.
My mother and my brother and I can count on one hand the number of books that
are recommended to me about,
about those people.
So mother was Brooklyn,
uh,
when,
I'll,
uh,
ask each of you separately.
So asked her,
when you think of the word successful,
who is the first person who comes to mind?
Uh,
the first person came to my mind was Elon Musk.
I don't know that I would,
yeah.
I mean,
obviously it's a successful person,
but there's so many different kinds of success.
Uh,
oh,
stick into that.
Yeah,
that's,
that's worth exploring.
I think.
I admire the fact that he has single handedly done what most other people need a
large crew to help do.
He has started a series of really successful things and he's highly involved.
And,
um,
I admire that.
That's sort of boundless ambition combined with the seriousness about digging in
and doing what it takes to get it done.
And he's quit purpose-driven,
which I happen to like also,
if you had to put a half of your net worth into space,
extra Tesla,
which one would you choose and why?
Yeah,
dramatic wine.
Pour it.
That's the sound of astro as money going down the drain.
Good,
good,
good.
Before?
No,
I'm going to say space X.
Okay.
Um,
I think Tesla will be a more successful financially successful business,
but
okay.
It would be hard to get as excited about that.
It is just inherently more audacious,
more um,
in the spirit that moves me to dream about going to Mars,
which is what fundamentally drives Alon and especially about space x.
There's just,
um,
okay.
The ethos of that adventure is worth more to me than the dollars that would be
created by better electric cars.
So there's not a knock on Tesla,
but I,
that's my knee jerk reaction.
Yeah.
Okay.
Cool.
What about you?
I think I'm going to take a pass on that one.
I don't really have,
I think I liked that leaps to mind.
No,
no.
I mean not that there are just so many successful people and I,
I dunno,
I feel like I just,
the benefit of going second or the curse of going second.
Well I had all this time to think of and I was thinking,
I was thinking like who could I,
but they're just so many,
uh,
people at,
I don't even know where to start.
If you could choose anyone throughout history to ask a hundred questions,
I'm not going to ask you to get the questions,
but who would you,
who would you choose
ask a hundred questions that,
anything that,
anything
life,
career or otherwise,
preferably a factually verifiable figure.
You're
right.
I think I'd be most interested in
talking to one of the Greek philosophers cause I feel like we have a lot of
documentation about what they thought and a fair amount about how they lived,
but it's not a complete picture.
Yeah.
And um,
obviously they spent a lot of their lives thinking very deeply and that things
that I would like to get their sort of take on the questions that I would want
to ask them.
Any particular philosophers?
Probably,
I mean Plato is,
yeah,
I think the most interesting.
Yeah,
they're all all such
fascinating,
conflicted characters,
modern human beings.
Measure that.
Uh,
if you had to point to ways in which you are medical or scientific training has
helped you or your relationships with family or significant others,
is there anything that you could point to?
Yeah,
I think there are a lot of things to point to.
Um,
probably the most significant is that
being in medicine you deal with people from all walks of life,
from all cultures,
all parts of the world and working in an intensive care unit,
you're working with families and patients who are in some of the most dire
straights that they've ever been in.
And I think that it really forces you to not just pay lip service to seeing
things from the perspective of other people,
but actually having to really try to understand where they're coming from and
how to
connect with them.
It's really important in those times to connect when you're trying to talk about
decisions surrounding life and death.
You really need to have a strong connection.
And I think that opens your mind so much to realizing how differently different
people feel about the world and think about the world.
And it puts you in the mindset of having to adapt yourself to their way of
thinking.
And so I feel like that has been very valuable.
They don't sort of have a knee jerk reaction to whether a perspective someone
has is right or wrong that I've been trained over the years to not see it in
black and white terms,
but just see it as,
you know,
people are different.
So it,
it's,
it's sort of pragmatically trained you to have that immediate degree of empathy
that you wouldn't have otherwise.
That's true.
But also just not to shut my mind to what they're trying to say because they
might have,
you know,
I might be speaking with someone,
I'm not religious.
I might be speaking to someone who is very religious and I need to try to see
the world from their perspective.
And when you're talking to a teenager,
you,
you need to imply,
you know,
and play these sorts of skills and see that they may have a radically different
way of seeing the world then you have have seen the world.
Yeah.
What were you,
uh,
what type of medicine were you involved with in the ICU?
So I worked in the medical intensive care unit,
which is the unit for everyone who's severely sick enough to either be on
machines to support them or are going to soon potentially need to be on machines
to support them,
um,
who don't have a surgical issue.
So the people who have had surgery,
they go to the surgical intensive care unit.
And then there's also a separate cardiac intensive care unit.
So if you had a heart attack,
you go somewhere else.
So we kind of get rid of the grab bag of everything else.
These are chronic sort of progressive diseases?
Well,
no,
I mean we see them when they're in their acute phase and hopefully get them
better and send them on their way.
Okay.
Oftentimes they don't get better.
And this is the rest of her glass on it.
The
conversations with Matt.
Yeah.
You have a lot of,
a lot of conversations about
the end of life because that's a lot of these people were at the ends of their
lives.
And do any of those conversations in particular stand out to you that have just
kind of stuck in your mind?
Well,
I think,
um,
yeah,
a few of them do.
I think one of the ones that's pertinent to sing people a different perspective
was a,
one of the problems that a lot of the medical professionals,
nurses and physicians who work in intensive care units in this country is that
we ended up having a very different view of the end of life than people who are
coming in than the families and patients that were coming in.
Our society has such a strong optimism and so and such a belief in the medical
system that they believe that everyone's going to be made better.
Not everyone,
that's an exaggeration.
But I think that they have more confidence than maybe it's warranted and how
much the medical system can do to save their loved ones.
And a lot of people have,
you know,
in order to provide them with hope,
they have been told along the way that things were maybe rosier than they
actually were.
And then we were put in the position of having to deliver the news that it's
unfortunately,
we've already passed the point where there's nothing left to do.
And at this point it's,
we're just coming to the end.
And what's very difficult is when families won't hear that and don't they want
us to continue to provide life support.
We know that it's going nowhere and we know that it's just a bridge too,
like,
uh,
a more difficult,
challenging death for this person and that,
and we feel like we're sometimes torturing these people.
They were just causing unnecessary pain and harm that the outcome's the same,
that they're going to die very soon and they may die one day and maybe two
weeks.
But if it's two weeks it's going to be two very horrible weeks.
And we feel awful doing that to people.
We just feel like then dignified and it just,
people have very strong,
the staff have very strong emotional reactions to that.
So I had one patient who was a very successful medical researcher who had a type
of cancer that had spread throughout his body and he had insisted on having it
hacked out one piece at a time,
even though it wasn't really the thing that you,
from a medical perspective that wasn't going to improve his life expectancy.
But he was young,
he was only in his forties and he had,
you know,
been very successful,
very well known scientist.
And um,
he insisted that he needed to have everything done.
Absolutely everything done.
And when I met him,
he was at death's door.
But because his underlying body was so strong,
he could stay at death's door for a long time,
you know,
be,
it could take a long time for him to actually die.
And I spoke with his wife.
We had,
um,
you know,
we had,
we had talked to the other teams who had taken care of him and they'd said,
look,
he's never said that he's willing to let people stop with any kinds of
aggressive treatment,
even if it's few title,
even if it's hopeless.
And in theory,
doctors don't have to provide treatment that is few tiles.
But because we so strongly right now in our culture wants to respect the wishes
of patients,
we often do provide few telecare,
which is where the,
where it's hard emotionally for every man.
And I had this conversation with his wife and she said to me,
she said,
look fun.
And she was lovely,
lovely woman.
And she said to me,
I know where you're coming from.
I totally get what you're saying.
I know he's going to be dead soon and he wanted to die a warrior's death.
And he is a warrior and this is how he's going to go out.
Like he just wants to go out fighting.
And I just suddenly felt at peace.
I was like,
you know what,
from my perspective,
this is the wrong thing.
But we're honoring his wishes by letting him breathe until the last moment where
even a machine can't support him.
It's not what I would choose.
It's not what I would choose for anyone I cared about,
but he was dying as a warrior and that was what he wanted.
And it,
I just,
I felt so much better about what we were doing and it also,
let me see that.
Yeah.
This,
my perspective is not the only one.
Like there are other ways of looking at life and death.
Yeah,
it's a,
I'm very close friends.
Um,
I had no idea he had metastasized pancreatic cancer.
We went on a skiing trip and uh,
South America,
which I knew was very,
very,
very expensive for him.
Uh,
with,
with another friend,
the three of us went down and skied in Las lineas and Argentina and literally,
I think it was less than six months later he was dead.
And,
uh,
it's a part of the reason that I read so much of the stoics because they reflect
on death.
Some might say obsessed with death.
They can't seem to get tired of talking about it.
Yeah.
Uh,
how do you think about death,
Astra?
I mean,
what,
how do you feel about the prospect of biological death?
I'm not particularly looking forward to mine,
but I made peace with it.
I think I recognize that it's going to happen and I worry frankly about people,
especially in the tech community who were obsessed with trying to prevent death.
Aye.
I have no objection to generally trying to help people live longer or be
healthier while they're alive,
more functional while they're alive.
Those are all good things.
It's still sometimes smells like kind of a creepy desperation.
The way the tech community can get overly obsessed about death and I think that
they're chasing something that they won't find and making themselves miserable
in the process because trying to convince themselves that they're going to be
able to avoid death,
which they don't really believe in their hearts,
leaves them feeling panicked in a way that if they just made peace with the fact
that they're going to die,
they could just focus on being happy.
Um,
my personal philosophy is to live my life as intensely as I can every single
day.
And if I do that,
then it doesn't matter when I go.
Um,
I had this experience when I was just middle of graduate school,
but I was playing soccer very competitively still.
And it was the last time I ever asked someone to take me out of a game.
I said,
take me out.
And Cause I was,
I wasn't dying,
but I just felt like someone else could be doing more for the team because I was
sufficiently tired as well in the middle of the second half.
And the coach got me out and as soon as he got me out I was dying to go back in.
I was just,
and I thought I am never doing that again.
I would rather collapse on the field,
which was I suppose a somewhat selfish perspective to have.
But I just thought,
you know what,
wait,
it's the coach's job to tell that I'm tired and I,
I sort of overthought the whole thing.
And then I had all these regrets after I got off the field and they couldn't put
me back on cause there's only two subs a game and it's become very metaphorical
to me.
It doesn't matter when the game's over as long as I don't leave anything on the
field.
So this is very Vince Lombardi.
I like it.
This living intensely.
I want to dig into this for a second.
What,
when you come to the close of the day,
what does a successful day look like versus a a failed day where sub suboptimal
that everyone,
it's entirely a perspective thing for me.
I mean I never cross everything off my to do list.
Well,
I mean,
it's just,
just to give Sobel people may not be familiar with Google mean.
Let's give some,
if you wouldn't mind giving some examples of the kind of stuff that you guys are
working on and what the,
what is the function of Google x?
Sounds very,
I expect,
ma'am,
the function of Google access to try to find some new,
really important problems with the world that are not yet Google's problems.
Uh,
and to make them Google's problems to take on things like the transportation
problem,
solving the connectivity problem,
their 5 billion people in the world who don't have connectivity,
who are not connected to the Internet.
Let's make that not be true.
There are very few things that would make the world a better place and solving
that problem.
What can we do to produce electricity cheaper than a coal fired power plant that
would radically change the world.
And we think we might have a way of doing that,
uh,
via these energy kites that we're working on.
Um,
so we have some in health care,
some in sort of human computer interactions like Google glass.
But each of these have wild,
I don't know,
the technical equivalent of mood swings every day.
We are,
you know,
I,
I came home one day and I told our kids,
I couldn't tell them this was before Luna had actually launched,
but I told them truthfully that one of our creations had gotten free and we had
to send a one of our a marine or an ex marine I guess,
uh,
after it with a Bowie knife to take it down.
Wait a Bowie knife.
Yes.
And so,
and I told them that our creation with the size of a house,
which was also true,
now it's something about a balloon.
It guess in this particular case it was a balloon that it was like half inflated
and then took off rolling across the countryside.
We had,
uh,
an ex marine sort of hop a couple of fences and chase it down and sort of slash
ad with a Bowie knife till enough of the helium came out and stopped rolling
across is very high to central valley.
But you know,
the good parts and bad parts kind of play like that.
Um,
have you guys publicly,
uh,
disclosed how many,
how many balloons you've released?
Oh,
several hundred at this point.
I think it's,
you know,
when we're ready it will take a lot more than several hundred to be put up.
But we have,
I don't know on the order of a hundred in the air,
but it's a testing process.
So whether it was a hundred or 50 or 150,
doesn't really matter.
I think we just had our first balloon,
um,
sort of,
I am not sure exactly what the birthday was,
but you know,
we've now had balloon,
many balloons that stayed up more than a hundred days,
many that have gone around the world,
uh,
you know,
on the order of 20 or 30 times.
So we're running all of the experiments that will take so that loon can,
in the not too distant future,
do what we've aspired for it to do,
which is to set up a,
an infrastructure that then the local telcos in various regions can use to
provide internet to everyone in their region.
And,
and by doing that everywhere to everyone on the planet,
hopefully.
And with your subjective assessment of,
uh,
success or failure in a given day,
how do you,
how do you approach that or how do you just feel about it at the end of the day?
Like when you're like,
fuck yeah,
that was a good day.
What are the things that contribute to that or that like,
ah,
I have no idea what I did all day.
Maybe you don't have that feeling.
I know.
I,
I do.
No,
I mean it's was I,
did I really bring mine?
Did I say what I mean?
Yeah.
I say exactly.
Um,
did I really bring both my intellect,
the best part of me intellectually and the best part of me emotionally to work
that I really share that with people.
Um,
did I move them?
Did I help them to get to a better place?
Um,
we um,
had a team meeting recently for one of the teams where,
you know,
they have some hard work to do in the not too distant future and I needed to
deliver some hard news to them and you know,
they're one version of it could be like,
you suck,
shame on you run harder,
run faster.
And that was not the version that I gave to them.
I help them be inspired.
I helped them feel like a family again in a way.
I think they had been struggling to feel like,
and I left that meeting feeling incredibly good about myself and about them.
And not just because I had given a rousing speech,
but because they had met me halfway.
They had responded in the way that I was hoping for.
And that's a good day when,
when I leave the office feeling like I've helped people,
I've,
you know,
I'm,
uh,
someone recently said it's kind of a funny way to put it,
that I'm like a big flywheel at Google x that when things are going well,
I have no effect.
But then as soon as things start to wobble,
I prevent things from like getting crazy.
The safety guy.
I hope not just that,
but yeah.
But I'd love to ask you just about your own,
uh,
and we'll close up in the next five minutes,
for yourself.
I feel as a writer,
a degree of kinship with who,
with what you guys have gone through and what you were,
you know,
tackling at the mode with the writing.
Uh,
for me in the last few years,
it's been very much a case of,
uh,
losing my identity in a way.
So I've pegged myself to being,
say a writer,
but then I'm not working on a book.
So what am I?
And then I'm working on a TV show,
but that falls through what am I,
and uh,
I'm not saying you're in that position,
but I certainly have been.
And uh,
not having a sort of a big team to account two or accounted for.
Uh,
how do you,
at the end of the day,
what makes you feel like a day has been successful or not?
That's very interesting that you should ask that question cause I feel the way
you do.
Probably Times 10 I was hanging on to my job with my fingernails.
I really loved what I did and I couldn't find an equivalent position in
California and decided to take a risk and do something very different.
And that I don't know if I'm at qualified for it.
I don't know if I'll have any success at,
so this is,
this is actually the big struggle in my life right now is I spend my days
writing and I have no idea if anyone's ever going to read anything that I'm
actually writing.
So at every day I ask myself,
is this with this worth it?
Was it not?
I think,
I don't know,
the things that make me feel like it was a successful day is if I feel like what
I wrote was good,
but I don't always,
I mean there are days when I just think that was crap my day writing something
really quite terrible or I don't make any progress on it.
So that's,
that's hard.
And then the smell projects,
you know,
we've been writing a lot of op eds and so on to support sacred cows and yeah.
More than 4 million,
4 million or so.
Yeah.
That's,
that's a lot.
Yeah.
So when,
so when,
when we get it,
we get,
she's got high standards.
There's a lot that's probably more than anything I've ever written.
Yeah.
Feedback from people and they say,
hey,
that was great.
That really helped me to see things in a different light.
I really appreciated that then.
Then that makes me feel good.
But of course as the writer and most days you get no feedback at all.
I,
I saw this interview with,
um,
the guy,
I don't know his name,
who wrote the fault in our stars,
which my kids love it.
The John Green is it?
I think that's right.
Anyway,
he gave this interview and he was saying that being a writer is like playing
Marco Polo where all you say is Marco,
Marco,
Martha.
And then you know,
if you're successful two years later,
finally someone will say hello.
That's a great description.
Yeah,
sure.
Vania said,
I think it is when I write,
I feel like an armless and legless man with a crayon and his mouth.
All right guys.
Well,
where can people learn more about both of you?
About the book,
about what you were up to?
Tell us where people can check you out.
Uh,
they can,
uh,
checkout sacred cows at Amazon,
at Nook,
uh,
on Google play.
They can get the book a iTunes has the book they can order.
Yeah,
you can go to astro teller.net to learn more about me or go to sacred cows,
the book.com to learn more about the book.
Um,
we just gave this a Tedx talk,
Tedx Boston about sacred cows that we gave together that I think is a good sort
of 15 minute intro to the concepts in the book.
It's another good way.
And just to go to youtube and you can check that out too.
Cool.
And what was the piece that he wrote that stirred up so much fire?
Oh Gosh.
What would they,
a miracle
American parenting is killing the American marriage.
All right,
well thank you so much for coming over guys.
So this is fun.
We should hang out more and uh,
lots of food for thought.
Lots of stuff for me to consider and hopefully everybody else out there
listening.
You can find the show notes.
Obviously on the website I'll include the links to everything including the book
four hour work week.com forward slash podcast.
And that is it for this evening.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thanks so much for having us Tim.
Oh yeah,
my pleasure.
This episode is brought to you by listen to headphones.
Listen.
Headphones are gorgeous,
made out of real exotic reclaimed wood,
but they are also doing good in the world.
He proceeds from each purchase.
Help someone to hear for the first time through the Starkey hearing foundation,
I had been using listen headphones since they came out partially because the
founders started the company after reading the four hour workweek and now
they're available in Nordstrom and all over the place.
They're super high quality and if you want to see the headphones that I travel
with that I love with any or an out of ear,
so kind of big all old school headphones,
then you can go to listen to headphones.com forward slash Tim that's lst n,
headphones.com forward slash Tim you will also get a $50 that's right,
$50 discount.
That's a big whopping five zero folks,
so go to listen to headphones.com forward slash Tim Ellis,
t n headphones.com forward slash.
Tim this episode is brought to you by 99 designs your one stop shop for all
things graphic design related.
I've used 99 designs for everything from banner ads to book covers,
including sketches and mock ups that led to the four hour body,
which later became number one New York Times Number One,
Wall Street Journal,
and the brainstorming.
A lot of it took place with designers from around the world,
and here's how it works.
Whether you need a t shirt,
a business card,
a website,
an APP thumbnail,
whatever it might be,
you submit that project and designers from around the world,
we'll send you sketches and mock ups and designs.
You choose your favorite and you have an original that you love or you get your
money back.
It's that straight forward.
And many of you who are listening have already used it and created some amazing
things that I'll be sharing in the future.
But in the meantime,
if you want to see some of my competitions,
some of the book covers,
as well as get a free $99 upgrade,
go to 99 designs.com forward slash Tim,
that's 99 designs.com forward slash.
Tim,
and until next time,
thank you for listening.
Okay.
Yeah.